#summary General information about JNAerator
#labels Manual

= Credits & License =

Please read [CreditsAndLicense]

= JNAerator =

JNAerator is a tool that aims at industrializing the use of JNA and Rococoa.

[http://jna.dev.java.net/ JNA] & [https://rococoa.dev.java.net/ Rococoa] open wide the doors of C & Objective-C libraries to the Java world.

JNAerator comes as a command-line tool with a limited GUI front-end.

= Syntax =

{{{ java -jar jnaerator.jar options headerFiles }}}

== Options ==

 * *-library name*
   Define the name of the output library. This is a state parameter, it will affect all files listed after it, until another -library switch is provided. It does not affect sources included from a project file (Visual Studio...).
 * *-framework FrameworkName*
   Parse all the headers defined in a framework.
 * *-frameworksPath path1:path2...*
   Set the frameworks path. See JNAERATOR_FRAMEWORKS_PATH below.
 * *-project projectFile "Config|Platform"*
   Parse all the headers of a Visual Studio Express C++ 2008 solution. "Config|Platform" is typically "Release|Win32".
 * *-Ipath*
   Add include path. See JNAERATOR_INCLUDE_PATH below
 * *-Dsymbol*
   Define preprocessor symbol
 * *-Dsymbol=value*
   Define preprocessor symbol to a value
 * *-Ipath*
   Add include path
 * *-studio*
   Launch JNAeratorStudio
 * *-help*
   Show help usage
 * *-o dir*
   Set output directory

== Environment Variables ==

All of these variables may be overridden by setting the environment variable ({{{ set VAR=value }}} on Windows, {{{ export VAR=value }}} on most unices) or through Java properties ({{{ java -DVAR=value -jar jnaerator.jar ... }}}).

 * VISUAL_STUDIO_HOME = 
   {{{ 
C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio 9.0 
   }}}
 * WINDOWS_SDK_HOME
   {{{ 
C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v6.0A
   }}}
 * VISUAL_STUDIO_INCLUDES = VISUAL_STUDIO_HOME;WINDOWS_SDK_HOME
 * JNAERATOR_INCLUDE_PATH : has the following platform-dependent default values :
   * Windows : uses VISUAL_STUDIO_INCLUDES
   * Mac OS X : {{{ /Developer/SDKs/MacOSX10.4u.sdk/usr/include:. }}}
   * Current dir on any other platform

 * JNAERATOR_FRAMEWORKS_PATH is only set on Mac OS X : 
   {{{
/System/Library/Frameworks/CoreServices.framework/Versions/Current/Frameworks:\
/System/Library/Frameworks/ApplicationServices.framework/Versions/Current/Frameworks:\
/System/Library/Frameworks:\
/Library/Frameworks:\
~/Library/Frameworks 
   }}}