#summary JNAerator's Frequently Asked Questions
#labels Featured
#sidebar TOCWiki
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= What is JNAerator ? =

*JNAerator* (pronounce _‘generator’_) is a tool that *parses C / C++ & Objective-C* sources (headers) and *generates the corresponding [http://bridj.googlecode.com BridJ], [http://jna.dev.java.net/ JNA] and [https://rococoa.dev.java.net/ Rococoa]* Java interfaces.

This makes it easy to call large native libraries from Java.

By default, JNAerator creates ready-to-use compiled JARs with self-extractible native libraries. These JARs also contain the generated sources, which contain full JavaDoc that retains the comments from the original headers.

= How to use `MyLib.dll` with `MyLibHeader.h` header from Java ? =

{{{
java -jar jnaerator.jar MyLib.dll MyLibHeader.h
}}}
will produce {{{ MyLib.jar }}}

= How to use `MyLib.dll` without headers from Java ? =

This is experimental and has big limitations, but simple cases should work :
{{{
java -jar jnaerator.jar MyLib.dll MyLibHeader.h -scanSymbols
}}}
will produce {{{ MyLib.jar }}}

= How to use the output of `MySolution.sln` from Java ? =

First make sure you compiled your solution in Release for both Win32 and Win64 targets, if needed.
{{{
java -jar jnaerator.jar MyLibHeader.sln
}}}
will produce {{{ MySolution.jar }}}

= How to include self-extracting libraries binaries in JAR outputs ? = 

This is already done by default, provided that you add the paths to all needed libraries binaries to JNAerator's command line.

= Where are libraries looked for at run-time ? =

If you've opted for library bundling within the JNAerated JAR (see previous question), your libraries are shipped with your JAR and need not be pre-installed on the system. JNAerator will extract them in the directory `.jnaerator/extractedLibraries` under the user's home directory and will use them directly from there.

For a library with name 'foo' (which shared library files are named 'foo.dll', 'libfoo.so', 'libfoo.dylib'...), JNAerator's runtime will try the following PATH values, in order :
  * Java preference 'library.foo' (modifiable with `System.setPreference("library.foo", somePath)`)
  * Environment variable 'FOO_LIBRARY' (`set FOO_LIBRARY=c:\somewhere`on windows, `export FOO_LIBRARY=...` on Unix)
  * Java preference 'jna.library.path'
  * Java preference 'java.library.path'
  * Default system's shared library path environment variable : `PATH` on Windows, `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` on Linux, and `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` on OSX.

For  more information please see [https://jna.dev.java.net/#getting_started JNA's documentation] and [CommandLineOptionsAndEnvironmentVariables].

= How to use MacOS X frameworks from Java ? = 

For most commonly used public frameworks, you should simply download Rococoa and use it alone.

If you need frameworks not covered by Rococoa, wish to use private headers and / or frameworks or ObjectiveC libraries for which no headers are available, then you should use JNAerator :

{{{
java -jar jnaerator.jar -framework Framework1 -framework Framework2 lib1.dylib lib2.dylib...
}}}

= What command-line options and environment variables are available ? = 
sta
There are quite a few of them : [CommandLineOptionsAndEnvironmentVariables]

= Is there a mailing list where I can ask for some help ? =

For now, [https://jna.dev.java.net/servlets/SummarizeList?listName=users JNA's users mailing list] is THE place to be.

= JNAerator stalls / hangs forever when fed with large headers = 

This appears to be a bug coming from its ANTLR parser, which does not react well to low-memory conditions. The parsing takes ages and seems to never end.

You can solve this by increasing the maximum memory allocated to the JVM :
{{{
java -Xmx1g -jar jnaerator.jar your-arguments-here
}}}

If this does not help, please [Issues file a bug] with an execution trace you'll capture from `jconsole`.

= There's no .java output =

Use the `-noComp -noJar` switches (see [CommandLineOptionsAndEnvironmentVariables] for more options)

= There's no output at all, or with no useful symbols and functions =

Please read [TroubleShootingJNAeration]

= I have many command line arguments, can I write them in a file ? =

You can create a file with the extension `.jnaerator` that will contain all your command line arguments.

Please read [JNAeratorFiles] for more information.

= Can I JNAerate multiple libraries at the same time ? =

Sure thing, you can chain multiple `-library` switches :
{{{
-library Mine1 mine1.h libmine1.so -library Mine2 mine2.h libmine2.so -library Mine3 mine3.h libmine3.so
}}}

Here's a real-world example : [http://code.google.com/p/nativelibs4java/source/browse/trunk/libraries/OpenCV/config.jnaerator OpenCV4Java's config.jnaerator file].

= My header includes other headers, what should I do ? =

You just need to make sure that [http://www.anarres.org/projects/jcpp/ JNAerator's integrated preprocessor] can resolve these includes.

JNAerator has a list of include paths that can be extended using the standard -I switch (which most if not all compilers accept) : adding "-Ipath" to the command line will add path to the include directories.

For instance, if one of your headers includes `core/structs.h` and you know that this header is located in `/usr/myTestLib/include/core/structs.h`, you need to add the following argument to the command line (or to your `.jnaerator` file) :
{{{
  -I/usr/myTestLib/include
}}}

Note that JNAerator *should* have default include paths for the most common system headers.

For more details on JNAerator's command line switches, see [CommandLineOptionsAndEnvironmentVariables].

= I found a bug in JNAerator. Where shall I file it ? = 

The [http://code.google.com/p/jnaerator/issues Issues] section is here for that.